hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations
weekly sync for monday the 2nd of
october 2020.
i am aching brain i am will be your host
we're going to go through our high power
initiatives
uh other initiatives parking lot q a all
that good stuff
it's gonna be a great one i'm not sure
it's gonna be as good as last week no
it's gonna be better it's gonna be
amazing let's get on with it
okay um upcoming and shipped releases
wait hang on we need a note taker
i forgot that's terrible isn't it lied
all done you're in the
left of my screen um
bad luck good luck i mean it's all
relative uh
thank you very much for volunteering
yourself like that
uh cool so let's move on anyway so
hybrid high priority initiatives the
first thing
is upcoming and ship releases um
so just quickly shipped uh jsipfs51
uh a few days ago uh it's great
it has types it has types omg
mega lols that has types um i think they
work
they work it's great it's amazing uh it
also gets rid of secio
uh and fixes a whole bunch of bugs
you should totally upgrade please do
and there's a blog post read the blog
post for the lowdown
uh i can talk about go ipfs
yes um yeah so there will maybe be a
release this week
i need to see there's a couple things
that need to get added um
the picking service work we'll talk
about in a second is looking pretty good
um data store works looking good for
that as well um there's a quick upgrade
we need to do and then there are some
there's some go live bdp work they're
working on
improving the streaming um there's some
stream
closures and all goodness with the
interface um so they're going to work on
hopefully wrapping that up this week um
i would tentatively say that it's more
than likely we will see the rc
next week as opposed to this week with
all of the
madness happening in the world this week
um
yes
anything else shipped
cool move on bidding service
spinning services all right so we have a
data store based pinning services the
performance
looks excellent um and i think we're
just waiting
i think we're going to do a final review
on all of that uh but as far as
it working it's great i've got the
migrations as well
and i will uh check that should be able
to check those in the day they look
great both for forward and backward
migrations
um and uh
other than that i don't know there's
anything less left unless we want to
run it on some actual uh customer data
or something like that that we
want you know to verify it otherwise uh
it looks like it
should be ready to go this week pending
any any review any
issues that come up so not anticipating
anything
anything uh any major changes if any at
all
so um green light if there's any
questions on that
uh nope then
we're moving forward with that as far as
from the next release
yeah uh just a quick psa from the
pinning service api spec front
there was a small patch release which
does not change the
require format but flips the way we do
search based on pin names so by default
it's now
fast exact name search as a default
and if you want case insensitive partial
then you need to
pass match parameter
so eventually please switch
i think go ipfs client already switched
to the latest version
uh if not it's uh it's not a blocker
uh it's kind of like softly backwards
compatible change but we
flipped us we flip the the default to
more performant
uh thing as a part of broader
refinement of our defaults in things
like listing pins
or resolving stuff we are switching to
the most performant
default because people often don't know
there's a parameter which
makes things faster so we are making the
default thing fastest
yeah that's it
awesome uh next up is sekio removal
yeah so that's all been released since
yes it's in i
go and we are intentionally planning to
do
the flash on the bootstrap nodes this
week
once that's done and we've completely
disabled from the bootstrap nodes then
we are also going to be
decommissioning the old dht uh booster
nodes
which we now have hydra to replace so
are we scheduling a a shutdown
all right basically we're just the the
plan is to
to disable this on the on the booster
note so kind of a flash of
remove sec il for 24 hours on the the
bootstrap nodes
um see if anybody screams in our general
direction
um if not then we will decommission them
fully next week
or remove sekio from the boosters and
our bootstrap
is next week
if there are complaints they could send
them to a pre-designated pub sub channel
which of course they won't be able to
because they won't have psycho i don't
have noise enabled
um so that the hydro nodes they
basically like didn't so we hardened the
network against civil attacks earlier in
the year
and the hydrogens are basically a civil
attack
on our own network do they still work so
the hydras are
sybils but they're not they're not an
attack so
if you look at like the hydras work the
main thing what they do is they you get
better coverage on the network um
so we've we've basically done the
calculation to get
pure solid peer id distribution so if
you look at your routing table over
time you'll have some hydro nodes in
there but they're not
overwhelming your node right like the
whole point of the dht hardening
like the blog post that we posted last
week this is
i connect to your node and then i take
over your entire routing table this is
not what the hydrogenates do
it's a it's a sybil for good um but yeah
public nodes are innately public
networks are innately
susceptible to to attacks um we've just
made that very expensive to do
and we are not going to spend the money
to attack ourselves because that would
be silly
fair enough okay moving on js improves
discoverability
and connectivity yes so
i got the custom analysis filter
function now ready for review
this basically allows users to for
example filtering out
private or look back addresses in order
to not
advertise them to other peers on the
network with that
i also implemented a custom dial address
sorter
and the goal of this is to is allowing
for for example uh we start by dialing
known public addresses
and only trying private addresses if we
cannot
dial the problem uh so in
in the outer relay area i worked on this
uh then in the in the rendezvous side of
things
i i got back to it uh it's still not
using the
discovery api but i have a pr with the
rendezvous
integrated uh android test and
everything it's ready
for an initial review as well as the the
rendezvous implementation itself
uh and then i basically started working
on some
examples uh we started with the auto
relay
i've mostly done the the
example for it but i will also leverage
this opportunity to
create tests for this example which is
the thing that we have been
delaying for a long time in liberty as
all our examples
don't have tests and every time we want
to do a release we need to manually
check them all
so i want to start doing tests from now
on
on them and after this i will also
start creating an example for the
rendezvous
and yeah that's it
cool adding test your examples is a good
idea
just saying so saves so much time
um so i have added in a new item in
there which is bi-directional streaming
and
streaming errors in the browser um in
brief what this is is
due to the limitations of current
browser technology
we cannot uh stream things backwards and
forwards at the same time
you have to create a form data object
before you can like upload a directory
for the files for example
um which requires consuming the entire
stream before you start sending it which
is really boring because you can't start
receiving
data until you've sent all the data
so the solution so the other problem is
the streaming errors that
the existing http api what it does is it
puts all the errors in http trailers
which is fab except for no browser
supports http trailers
um so if you're streaming a whole bunch
of stuff to the server and there's an
error
it gets put into the trailer
it never arrives or at least it never
gets processed by the browser
the stream effectively just stops and
you think cool beans i'm done
except you're not done there was an
error and you never saw it um so it's
not
not great um so the solution to this
kind of stuff is doing
uh some kind of rpc over a medium you
can stream
bi-directionally and you can wrap errors
and that kind of thing
so um like websockets is the obvious one
to use so look at looking i was looking
into
grpc today works in node it's great
it doesn't work in the browser because
it goes over http
in node it uses http 2
which is not doesn't seem to be
supported in any browsers
so that's kind of problematic so it
might end up switching to something like
uh json rpc because that does work over
web sockets and there are a whole bunch
of
kind of uh like issues around hey you're
gonna
add support to grpc to do over web
sockets and they're like
nah now you can just use http too it's
like oh no
i can't i can't use it um so you might
not be able to use grpc which is a shame
because
you know it's quite well understood um
and the pro bottom nice and that kind of
thing but yeah anyway so looking into
that just started uh
knocking around without today so more
updates next week
but that will be rad and will solve lots
of problems for us
any questions
does that mean you're looking at using
grpc as is or looking at providing some
sort of extension to use web sockets
um i mean i'd like to use grpc uh if
it's
if it's if we can do over web sockets
um that would be rad but if it ends up
being a whole ton of work i'm just going
to use
something else because i don't
particularly want to be maintaining
like the infrastructure around the thing
i just want to use the thing
and get it shipped
i would just check before you go on the
whole endeavor
whether or every browser can connect to
the websocket on localhost
because there are some content security
policies that i think might prevent you
from doing it
yeah i'm hoping to shake that stuff out
of the tree as i go along
cool that is the end of the high
priority initiatives moving on to other
initiatives so
improving web ui file out
no update this week on that
and the typescript stuff i i have a few
other pull requests that i've added that
it's more typings to the things
yeah i merged the one with the um
examples in
so just gonna ship that probably
tomorrow morning
thanks cool so uh budget two support
uh as far as badger two there's not
really been any movement um we're still
waiting to see if
they're going to come out with another
major release that has the features we
need in it
uh but other than that there's no there
hasn't been any updates and
no changes we're ready to go on our end
but um
you know what is it we need our actual
release from badger to move forward with
those features
yeah based on the current state we
likely won't land until 0.9 we're going
to shift the
oerc in the next week or two
cool uh dns adder resolving in
js yeah so the other
dns other resolvers are now then merged
and released
it's just we just have a pending vr only
b2b which basically
resolves the dns other on on the dial
it's already working and the jack
already did the first review
and i'm also talking with michael burns
from the infra team
because uh we i can now connect to
all the bootstrap nodes but some of the
txt records
still have or unreachable addresses or
addresses that provide certificate
charters because we will be using
the ns4 or dns6 for the websocket
address because of the browser issue
with
ssl but we are still
having in the txt records the ipa
addresses
using the web sockets that needed to be
removed
and yeah so i think we are pretty close
on this
that's awesome um not reversing
yeah we've got a very long work stream
coming up
uh moving it here for now likely we'll
move it up with the priority list but
we're still working on the
work plan here uh there's a bunch of
things that potentially need to get done
for this to land
we're just figuring out exactly what
that what that work plan is
um because we need to deal with things
like simultaneous connect
which has implications on multi-stream
and all kinds of stuff so
we are working on figuring that all out
radical uh that is the end of the other
initiatives
um so moving on to the rest of the items
so uh design review proposals
anybody got anything to propose i mean i
will have uh
some of the stuff i'm doing with um the
streaming will probably go to design
review
uh but not this week
oh i think that i will have a design or
at least a
um a review of proposed actions for a
revision of garbage collection
um i don't have that yet but either late
this week or next week and i don't
um i don't know if there's anybody who
wants to volunteer for
looking at working on that with me when
i have a
proposal for the design but that's
that's going to be coming up here likely
next week
yeah if you have a um
you have a time that you want to
allocate for that um or organize a
meeting feel free to plop your
pop your thing in the design proposals
and then we can solicit
solicit names to join that all right
excellent
i'll take care of that later this week
if there are no more design review
proposals then moving on to
blockers and asks
questions
um i actually have a question about the
thing you mentioned earlier alex about
the
websocket uh does that mean we'll have a
api on a server for both go ipfs and js
ipfs to talk to or is that somehow going
to overlay
existing api um so the approach is well
so i'm doing njs ipfs first
um just so we've got something to talk
about um
and then someone can implement that and
go ibms
uh the initial thing will be to
basically just tackle the streaming
uh api so there's only a handful of them
and then fall back to the http client
for everything else so that should allow
us to ship something
usable quickly um
and then if everyone's happy with that
we can look at expanding it to go rpfs
as well
that's just because of my expertise in
js rather than go
yeah yeah we're just trying to
understand it
so it would be like v1 of apis that is
different streaming is that
is that correct or sorry for every one
of the api
yeah so we have a v0 uh http api so it
would be like v1 websocket api
um i think yeah maybe like
probably zero as well just running on a
different port is a different process
um but yeah i mean
like i can't i can't see a good reason
to have both http and
a websocket api apart from fullback
um like the atg api isn't going anywhere
like there is you know there's too much
stuff built on top of it um
it's like it's just a case of like do
you want to pile more stuff
onto that or do you want to have
something else
oh my god my preference has turned me
for something else because then you can
also turn it on and off
um as required and yeah i don't know
anyway this will be like
the design kind of question
uh moving on to the parking lot
yep um i've added a link to
uh kind of like to kick off a discussion
about
how do we represent dns link
domain names on the public gateways so
long story short is that if you have uh
like docs ipfs io
it has a dns link you can load it from a
local gateway
it will be docs.ipfsio.ipns.localhost
the problem is like on localhost it's
fine because there's no
tls the problem is if you want to load
it from a public gateway
and it's not the original gateway that
is backing that domain name
let's say you want to load it from the
web link or maybe cloudflare's subdomain
gateway
right now it won't work
because tls certificates
are if you want to have like a wildcard
tls certificate that's possible only for
a single level
of dns names and
that works for cids that works for li
p2p
keys the problem is if you want to put
a domain name as an identifier
domain names have dots which split into
more than one dns
label and that means it's impossible
given both
like technically maybe possible but due
to terms of service
it's impossible to easily mine
that type of certificate on the fly
and there's no multi-level wildcard
available so the idea is
there are like different ideas and pros
and cons listed on the issue
but i think the most promising one is to
come up with
some simple encoding where we remove
dots
fit in the single label uh limit is 63
characters but i think for most of
websites that's
plenty enough um so if anyone has any
thoughts
uh just comment on the issue uh sanity
checks or
like encoding proposal anything and if
we figured out something solid that will
be probably a design review proposal
but for now just take a look
cool anything else in the parking lot
okay from a rock
gs interfaces was that carried over
carried over right wait times
okay um everyone's gonna get four
minutes back
amazing uh thank you very much for
coming everyone uh this has been the
ipvs uh wikisync
for monday the 2nd november 2020. stay
safe out there
it's a crazy world and it's only going
to get crazier um
which is awful but you know actually no
it's all good have fun
see you on the internet bye